Current quality level declarations (#67)
ros2/rosidl_typesupport: rosidl_typesupport_c/QUALITY_DECLARATION.md

This document is a declaration of software quality for the `rosidl_typesupport_c` package, based on the guidelines in [REP-2004](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2004.html).

# `rosidl_typesupport_c` Quality Declaration

The package `rosidl_typesupport_c` claims to be in the **Quality Level 4** category.

Below are the rationales, notes, and caveats for this claim, organized by each requirement listed in the [Package Requirements for Quality Level 4 in REP-2004](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2004.html).

## Version Policy [1]

> ### Version Scheme [1.i]

Reviewer: This is also talking about version 1.0, which is `1.ii`, so how about:

```suggestion
### Version Scheme [1.i]/[1.ii]
```

Author: Done

### Copyright Statements [3.iv]

The copyright holders each provide a statement of copyright in each source code file in `rosidl_typesupport_c`.

There is an automated test which runs a linter that ensures each file has at least one copyright statement.

Most recent test results can be found [here](http://build.ros2.org/view/Epr/job/Epr__rosidl_typesupport__ubuntu_bionic_amd64/lastBuild/testReport/rosidl_typesupport_c/)

## Testing [4]

### Feature Testing [4.i]

There are currently no public features undergoing tests.

### Public API Testing [4.ii]

There are currently no tests for the public API.

### Coverage [4.iv]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` does not currently track test coverage.

### Performance [4.iv]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` does not currently have performance tests.

### Linters and Static Analysis [4.v]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` uses and passes all the standard linters and static analysis tools for a C++ package as described in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#linters).

## Dependencies [5]

### Direct Runtime ROS Dependencies [5.i]

> `rosidl_typesupport_c` has the following ROS dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`rosidl_typesupport_c` has the following runtime ROS dependencies:
```

Author: Done

* `rcpputils`
* `rosidl_runtime_c`
* `rosidl_typesupport_connext_c`
* `rosidl_typesupport_interface`
* `rosidl_typesupport_introspection_c`

> 

Reviewer: How about adding an explicit note that "`rosidl_typesupport_c` does not have any direct runtime "non-ROS" dependencies."

Author: Added section 5.iii for that.

### Change Requests [2.i]

This package requires that all changes occurr through a pull request.
### Contributor Origin [2.ii]
 This package has a confirmation of contributor origin policy, which can be found in [CONTRIBUTING](../CONTRIBUTING.md)

### Peer Review Policy [2.iii]

 Following the recommended guidelines for ROS Core packages, all pull request have at least 1 peer review.

### Continuous Integration [2.iv]

All pull request must pass CI on all [tier 1 platforms](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#support-tiers)

Currently nightly results can be seen here:
* [linux-aarch64_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/rosidl_typesupport_c/)
* [linux-arm64_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux_release/lastBuild/testReport/rosidl_typesupport_c/)
* [mac_osx_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_osx_release/lastBuild/testReport/rosidl_typesupport_c/)
* [windows_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_win_rel/lastBuild/testReport/rosidl_typesupport_c/)

> 

Reviewer 2: Missing 
``` 
### Documentation Policy [2.v]
```

Author: Added

### Version Stability [1.ii]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` is not yet at a stable version, i.e. `>= 1.0.0`.

### Public API Declaration [1.iii]

All symbols in the installed headers are considered part of the public API.

All installed headers are in the `include` directory of the package, headers in any other folders are not installed and considered private.

### API Stability Within a Released ROS Distribution [1.iv]/[1.vi]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` will not break public API within a released ROS distribution, i.e. no major releases once the ROS distribution is released.

### ABI Stability Within a Released ROS Distribution [1.v]/[1.vi]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` contains C code and therefore must be concerned with ABI stability, and will maintain ABI stability within a ROS distribution.

## Change Control Process [2]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` follows the recommended guidelines for ROS Core packages in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#package-requirements).

### Change Requests [2.i]

This package requires that all changes occur through a pull request.

### Contributor Origin [2.ii]

>  This package has a confirmation of contributor origin policy, which can be found in [CONTRIBUTING](../CONTRIBUTING.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This package uses DCO as its confirmation of contributor origin policy. More information can be found in [CONTRIBUTING](../CONTRIBUTING.md).
```

Author: Done.

### Continuous Integration [2.iv]

All pull request must pass CI on all [tier 1 platforms](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#support-tiers)

Currently nightly results can be seen here:
* [linux-aarch64_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux-aarch64_release/lastBuild/testReport/rosidl_typesupport_c/)
* [linux_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_linux_release/lastBuild/testReport/rosidl_typesupport_c/)
* [mac_osx_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_osx_release/lastBuild/testReport/rosidl_typesupport_c/)
* [windows_release](https://ci.ros2.org/view/nightly/job/nightly_win_rel/lastBuild/testReport/rosidl_typesupport_c/)

### Documentation Policy [2.v]

All pull requests must resolve related documentation changes before merging.

## Documentation [3]

### Feature Documentation [3.i]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` does not have any feature documentation and it will need to be added for higher quality levels.

### Public API Documentation [3.ii]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` does not currently have public API documentation.

### License [3.iii]

> The license for `rosidl_typesupport_c` is Apache 2.0, and a summary is in each source file, the type is declared in the `package.xml` manifest file, and a full copy of the license is in the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The license for `rosidl_typesupport_c` is Apache 2.0, and a summary is in each source file, the type is declared in the [package.xml](./package.xml) manifest file, and a full copy of the license is in the [LICENSE](../LICENSE) file.
```

Author: Done.

There is an automated test which runs a linter that ensures each file has a license statement.

### Copyright Statements [3.iv]

The copyright holders each provide a statement of copyright in each source code file in `rosidl_typesupport_c`.

There is an automated test which runs a linter that ensures each file has at least one copyright statement.

Most recent test results can be found [here](http://build.ros2.org/view/Epr/job/Epr__rosidl_typesupport__ubuntu_bionic_amd64/lastBuild/testReport/rosidl_typesupport_c/)

## Testing [4]

### Feature Testing [4.i]

There are currently no public features undergoing tests.

### Public API Testing [4.ii]

There are currently no tests for the public API.

### Coverage [4.iv]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` does not currently track test coverage.

### Performance [4.iv]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` does not currently have performance tests.

### Linters and Static Analysis [4.v]

> `rosidl_typesupport_c` uses and passes all the standard linters and static analysis tools for a C++ package as described in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#linters).

Reviewer 2: link http://build.ros2.org/view/Epr/job/Epr__rosidl_typesupport__ubuntu_bionic_amd64/lastBuild/testReport/rosidl_typesupport_c/

Author: Done.

### Version Stability [1.ii]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` is not yet at a stable version, i.e. `>= 1.0.0`.

### Public API Declaration [1.iii]

All symbols in the installed headers are considered part of the public API.

All installed headers are in the `include` directory of the package, headers in any other folders are not installed and considered private.

### API Stability Within a Released ROS Distribution [1.iv]/[1.vi]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` will not break public API within a released ROS distribution, i.e. no major releases once the ROS distribution is released.

### ABI Stability Within a Released ROS Distribution [1.v]/[1.vi]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` contains C code and therefore must be concerned with ABI stability, and will maintain ABI stability within a ROS distribution.

## Change Control Process [2]

`rosidl_typesupport_c` follows the recommended guidelines for ROS Core packages in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#package-requirements).

### Change Requests [2.i]

This package requires that all changes occur through a pull request.

### Contributor Origin [2.ii]

>  This package uses DCO as its confirmation of contributor origin policy.

Author: Done

 More information can be found in [CONTRIBUTING](../CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Peer Review Policy [2.iii]

>  Following the recommended guidelines for ROS Core packages, all pull request have at least 1 peer review.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Remove whitespaces at the beginning

Author: Done

This document is a declaration of software quality for the `rosidl_typesupport_c` package, based on the guidelines in [REP-2004](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2004.html).

# `rosidl_typesupport_c` Quality Declaration

The package `rosidl_typesupport_c` claims to be in the **Quality Level 4** category.

Below are the rationales, notes, and caveats for this claim, organized by each requirement listed in the [Package Requirements for Quality Level 4 in REP-2004](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2004.html).

> ## Version Policy

Reviewer 2: In the REP 2004 there is a guideline for Quality Declaration in `markdown` which add the index referencing the REP to the title. Right now looks like:

```
## Version Policy
```
But the guideline define this as
```
## Version Policy [1]
```

I suggest to change all the titles to follow the section number as defined in the REP

Author: Titles have been updated accordingly.

### Version Scheme

`rosidl_typesupport_c` uses `semver` according to the recommendation for ROS Core packages in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#versioning).

> However, it is not yet at a stable version, i.e. `>= 1.0.0`.

Reviewer: Just a note that this line should be updated when we bump the package to 1.0 for Foxy.

Author: Ok, for now this will just reflect the current status.

### API Stability Within a Released ROS Distribution

`rosidl_typesupport_c` will not break public API within a released ROS distribution, i.e. no major releases once the ROS distribution is released.

### ABI Stability Within a Released ROS Distribution

> `rosidl_typesupport_c` contains C code and therefore must be concerned with ABI stability, and will maintain ABI stability within a ROS distribution.

Reviewer: I think we should enable `test_abi` [here](https://github.com/ros/rosdistro/blob/master/eloquent/distribution.yaml#L2284) and link to the resulting job here.

Author: PR added here. I'll add in the resulting jobs once they get run.
https://github.com/ros/rosdistro/pull/24518

### Public API Declaration

All symbols in the installed headers are considered part of the public API.

All installed headers are in the `include` directory of the package, headers in any other folders are not installed and considered private.

## Change Control Process

`rosidl_typesupport_c` follows the recommended guidelines for ROS Core packages in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#package-requirements).

This includes:

- all changes occur through a pull request
- all pull request have at least 1 peer review

> - all pull request must pass CI on all [tier 1 platforms](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#support-tiers)

Reviewer: Is there a CI link we can add here so someone reading the declaration can verify it?

Author: Added nightly links to ci.ros2.org

- all pull request must resolve related documentation changes before merging

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Must have confirmation of contributor origin. This repository uses DCO.

```

Author: Added as section 2.ii

## Documentation

### Feature Documentation

`rosidl_typesupport_c` does not have any feature documentation and it will need to be added for higher quality levels.

### Public API Documentation

`rosidl_typesupport_c` does not currently have public API documentation.

### License

> The license for `rosidl_typesupport_c` is Apache 2.0, and a summary is in each source file, the type is declared in the `package.xml` manifest file, and a full copy of the license is in the `LICENSE` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The license for `rosidl_typesupport_c` is Apache 2.0, and a summary is in each source file, the type is declared in the `package.xml` manifest file, and a full copy of the license is in the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file.
```

Author: Done

> There is an automated test which runs a linter that ensures each file has a license statement.

Reviewer: Here too it would be ideal to link to the test results / license files so the reader can quickly verify the information. It also makes it easier to check if this ever regresses (i.e. someone changes the license file).

Author: Linked to the license file and ci results are linked further down.

## Testing

### Feature Testing

There are currently no public features undergoing tests.

### Public API Testing

There are currently no tests for the public API.

### Coverage

`rosidl_typesupport_c` does not currently track test coverage.

### Performance

`rosidl_typesupport_c` does not currently have performance tests.

### Linters and Static Analysis

`rosidl_typesupport_c` uses and passes all the standard linters and static analysis tools for a C++ package as described in the [ROS 2 Developer Guide](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#linters).

## Dependencies

`rosidl_typesupport_c` has the following ROS dependencies:
* `rcpputils`
* `rosidl_runtime_c`
* `rosidl_typesupport_connext_c`
* `rosidl_typesupport_interface`
* `rosidl_typesupport_introspection_c`

It has "buildtool" dependencies, which do not affect the resulting quality of the package, because they do not contribute to the public library API.
It also has several test dependencies, which do not affect the resulting quality of the package, because they are only used to build and run the test code.

## Platform Support

> `rosidl_typesupport_c` supports all of the tier 1 platforms as described in [REP-2000](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#support-tiers), and tests each change against all of them.

Reviewer: A link to test results would also be nice here.

Author: Added release nightlies here
